Anyways, go ahead and pause this video and then resume it once you've signed up for a deploy HQ account.
All right.
So once you've logged in to deploy HQ, let's go ahead and set up a new project.
Go ahead and give it a name, the name doesn't matter.
I will say fictional university, what does matter?
What is important is which service you choose here.
I hosted my repo on GitHub, so that's what I will click.
OK, then let's click Create Project next.
It takes me to a GitHub dotcom screen that's asking do I want to authorize deploy HQ to be able to access
my GitHub account.
I do indeed want to authorize it, so I will click the screen, authorize button.
GitHub will ask for your password, go ahead and enter it.
After that, it should take you back to the Deploy HQ website and now it's showing you a list of all
the repos in your GitHub account.
So just look for the new repo you created for our WordPress project.
For example, I named my new project on GitHub WP Deploy Test, so just click on your repo.
OK, so now our deployed HQ project has a repo associated with it, now we just need to set up a server.
So this is where we tell Deploy HQ how it can connect to our Web host.
So create new server.
Let's give it a name.
The name doesn't matter, but I will just say site ground.
OK, down here we see protocol.
So how do we technically want to connect to the web host?
Well, in a perfect world, we'd want to use the S.H. or FTP option, but every Web host is different.
Some might make that very easy to configure and others might make it very difficult or confusing.
So you'll need to perform a bit of research with your particular Web hosting company and figure out
where you can create either an S.H. user or an FTP user, or if that's too challenging, you can always
use the FTP, the standard FTP option.
It's potentially less secure, but as long as deploy HQ is handling things in a smart way, you should
be OK.
Either way, whichever option you choose, you will need to do a bit of research on your web host here.
With that click, if we scroll down a bit, you're probably wondering how are we supposed to know what
to enter for these fields like hostname port username and password?
Well, once again, there's no way around it.
You'll need to do a bit of research on your particular Web host with most hosts.
If you go into the control panel or the dashboard, you can find either S.H. or FTP or just standard
FTP, and you'll just want to either create a new user if one doesn't already exist or if one already
exists and you can't remember what the password is, you might just need to set a new password right
then and there.
But either way, you're just trying to move over those values into deploy HQ.
Now, the fields will be different depending on whether you chose S.H. and safety or standard FTP and
your values will be different depending on your host.
But in particular, one field that I want to draw your attention to is this deployment path field.
This field in particular is one of the most common sources of frustration.
Essentially, if you go to your Web hosting file manager or you did use a manual FTP program, well,
when you first start digging through that folder structure, it might show you the different domains
and then there might be a folder called Public or public underscore HTML or w WW.
Again, every host is different, but essentially you really just need to make sure that your SSA address,
FTP or FTP user, that it's pushing files to the correct path.
And to get a frame of reference here for how your host works, you can always create a WordPress website
on your host using the easy one click installer and then look in your file manager and sort of track
down the file path of where the WordPress files actually live.
Right.
Like, do you first need to dig into a domain folder and then a public underscore HTML folder, so on
and so forth.
So if you think that you have everything else set up correctly and it's still not working.
Well, in just a moment when we actually perform our first deployment, go dig through your Web hosting
file manager and pay attention to where Deploy HQ is pushing those files to.
Perhaps it's not pushing it into the correct path on your server.
OK, and that's it.
All of these other default options are OK for now.
Let's go ahead and click create server.
On this next screen, I don't necessarily agree with all of these suggestions, so I'm actually just
going to click skip this step.
OK, and cool, this is the screen we've all been waiting for.
This is where we can actually make a deployment.
So for the server, yes, I want to use the site ground server we just set up.
I do want to use the main or master branch on my GitHub repo.
Keep scrolling down.
This looks great.
I'm going to use the start immediately option and let's go ahead and click deploy.
Now, normally, this will only take a few seconds, however, the very first deploy is going to take
a good amount of time because it has to transfer every single file, right.
All of the world press system files everything.
Now, in the future, though, when we make a deployment, it only has to send the actual few files
that we changed and pushed up to our repo.
So for this first deploy, you might want to go get a coffee or step away from your computer for five
minutes or maybe even 10 or 15 minutes, but eventually it will complete.
So through the magic of video editing, I fast forwarded and you can see that my deployment has finished.
This means that our site Ground Public Web hosted site should now work.
So previously in this tab, you can see I was trying to visit Brad Asphaug Edwards site and it was a
403 error.
However, now that the deployment has finished, the files exist.
So if I refresh.
Cool, all of those files from our GitHub repository have been pushed to our site ground Web host Couso.
In our previous lesson, we set up the database and now in this lesson, we set up the files.
This means our public website is ready to go.
Well, almost.
If you try to visit any of the links, you'll likely see an error screen.
And that's just because we need to rebuild our permalink structure.
So to do that, go ahead and log in with your WordPress admin account.
Go ahead and log in.
OK, then in the left hand sidebar under settings, click on Permalink.
Just scroll down to the bottom and click save changes.
Now that we've done that, if we jump back to the front end of our website, we should be able to use
the navigation.
Yep.
And we can successfully navigate around our website.
And you can share these URLs with your friends and family.
Right.
This website is live up on the Web.
And now that we've made that first one time big deployment of all of our files, now let's set up automatic
deployments so that any time we update the master branch on our GitHub or BitBucket account, a deployment
automatically occurs and only uploads the changed files to our Web host.
So let's jump back into our Deploy HQ account.
And in the left hand side bar, we're looking for something named automatic deployments.
Let's go ahead and click on that.
If I scroll down just a little bit, we see this area with the subedar named enabled servers and groups
and it says select which servers should have auto deployment enabled.
So I'm just going to check this or enable this.
And I do indeed want these site ground server setup to also be enabled.
And I will point out that regarding this Web hook, U.
RL sometimes deploy HQ can successfully add this to your GitHub repo.
However, I also have firsthand experience with that, not working automatically.
So just to play it safe, go ahead and copy your web, hook you earlier into your clipboard.
Yours will be different than mine, obviously, but copy that into your clipboard and then back in your
GitHub repo your overview screen, click on settings.
In the left hand side bar, click on Web Hooke's.
In the payload Eurail field, just paste in your clipboard, I will leave all of the other settings
set to their default and then just click add web hook.
OK, now that we've done that, you can jump back to deploy HQ and we have successfully set up automatic
deployments, meaning the next time we push a comet to our GitHub or BitBucket repo, those specifically
changed files should just get automatically sent over to our Web host.
I'm going to jump back to my local dev environment website and let's imagine I want to make two changes.
Maybe I want to change this headline to read Hello World instead of just hello and maybe up in my head
or navigation instead of campuses.
I want to say locations so we know exactly what to do.
We just jump into our text editor and to be more specific, make sure that you've opened our fictional
university theme folder.
OK, first, let's jump into front page.
And up at the top here, we see hello, let's change that to hello, karma world, give that save back
on the homepage of our local dev environment.
We see that change.
Let's also change campuses up in the navigation.
So in our theme folder, jump into header BHP.
We're looking for the unordered list with the list items, here's the one for campus.
So I'm just going to scroll to the right and change the word inside the element from campuses to locations,
give that a safe back in our dev environment.
Cool.
We see that taking effect.
So now let's imagine I'm happy with these changes.
I've had a chance to test them out, make sure they look good.
And now I want to go live with these changes now, thanks to our new workflow.
Watch how easy it is to update our live Web site up on our Web host.
All we need to do is commit and push our changes up to GitHub or BitBucket.
So back in VST code, I have my theme folder open right now.
So if I open up the command line, my NPM run dev task is running.
We can actually leave this running if we want to and instead use this icon here to open a second terminal
or command line.
And then this menu lets you switch between your two terminals.
So in this second command line, I'm just going to commit my files into my git repo and then push it
up to GitHub so I get add everything I'm going to commit them changed on page and header and navigation.
Now that I've committed that to get on my computer, I'm just going to push it up to GitHub, so get
push origin master.
And that's it, I literally do not need to do anything else, so right now in the background, deploy
HQ is doing its thing.
We only needed to set it up that one time, that little bit of configuration, and now we don't ever
need to deal with it, look at it or touch it again.
So back in the Deploy HQ tab, if I click on deployments in the sidebar, if you switch to the screen
quickly enough, you'll see the deployment in progress.
But you can see in my case, it's already completed.
So there's my get commit message home page and header navigation changes.
So it's been deployed.
If I go over to my Brad Estcourt SGU site and refresh.
Awesome, we see hello, world change, and we also see locations in the navigation perfect deploy HQ
only uploaded those two new files that actually changed.
Now, I know this might not seem like a big deal, but to me and so many other developers, this is
such a luxurious workflow.
Now, you don't need to mentally keep track of which files you've changed, because if you're developing
a fairly big new feature, you might have changed seven or eight or 12 different files.
And it can be hard to keep track of which files change, in which files didn't change.
And normally you would have to manually upload all of your changed files.
So we don't have to mess with any of that anymore.
And we don't ever need to manually open up an FTP program ever again.
And just in case you're curious, you can always jump over to deploy HQ, click on deployments in the
sidebar, and here you can see a history of your most recent deployment.
You can even click View to see the details.
Every deployment service is different, but with deploying HQ, you can click on the transferring icon
and it will show you exactly the files that got updated and we can see that we are in business and that's
actually going to bring this section of the course to a close.
Now, on a related note, you might have a few questions about exactly which files you should keep within
your repository.
So, for example, if I look at my file tree, there's no right or wrong way of setting up a WordPress
repository.
But a lot of people like to ignore the WP content uploads folder.
So that way, if you're just experimenting and uploading different jpeg within your local dev copy,
those files will not get automatically pushed to your web host.
It's just personal preference.
Other developers like to take it a step further and only have their theme folder within version control.
There is no right or wrong way of doing this, but depending on how you set things up, it will affect
how you handle WordPress core updates.
I will touch on that topic in greater detail in the extra credit section of this course.
But for now, that's going to bring this lesson to a close.
So let's keep things rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.